Well are talking about the Course I'm watching.
And today we're going to talk about initial court offerings otherwise known as i suppose.
So let's have a look in our layers of blotching and ICAO can actually happen on two different layers.
Most commonly what we see is actually happening on the Tolkien layer where I'm either under a theorem
or neo or another protocol somebody creates a new idea or has an idea how to use block change in an
industry or in a different way.
And they they then use block chain to all use and I say no to fund this idea.
And that's on the token there.
And at the same time and I see it can also happen on the protocol acquaints there where if somebody
comes up with a new protocol for four block chain then they can create it and they can issue the coins
that are going to be in that protocol in an ICU.
So there's just something to keep in mind remember but most commonly you're going to be dealing with
what are you going to be hearing about CEOs of tokens.
All right so let's have a look at how I feel that we were going to do this is we're going to compare
IPOs to CEOs.
An IPO is an initial public offering and it's a way that companies are or have been historically used
to raising money from the stock market.
So let's have a look.
This is an IPO.
And how does it work.
Well let's say these three gentlemen Steve Jobs Steve Wozniak and Ronald Wayne wants to raise some money
for their company Apple.
Right.
So how does this whole thing work out.
Well at the start they put in work.
They say their labor and some initial capital into the company before any IPO is even considered yet
into this idea.
They put in work an initial capital and in return they get shares in that company.
Then what happens is they start producing products computers phones watches and so on and other products.
And basically the company has products and services and in return it gets a profit.
So that's how a company can operate before it's publicly listed company.
Well it's a private company.
But then once they want to list the company publicly so the shares are available to the general public
for purchase.
They they conduct an IPO an initial public offering and what happens there is the public gives cash
to the company and in return gets shares in that company.
And so that way is a way that companies raise cash in order to fund their operations further.
So once they know that idea is working and is showing promise they need a lot of capital in order to
grow and scale their business thats how they raise cash.
But in return they have to give shares to the community to the people that back or the people that invested
into the company and therefore these people are actually entitled to a part of the company even though
its very small for every single person or might be quite large.
For larger investors such as companies so companies can also invest in different companies or investment
funds.
So with that entitlement to part of the company what comes also is some control and also what comes
is some share of profit so if the founders or the people over here they want to pay themselves part
of the profit now they are going to just pay themselves they have to pay shares to the public its just
like a very basic overview is of course much more complex than that but in general this is kind of the
idea behind an IPO.
Now lets have a look at see what happens there.
Well the start is very similar.
So the founders they create a company lets say this is happening in a parallel universe so that these
companies are not related don't even exist in the same world.
And so the founders create a company they invest their work or labor an initial capital to get shares
in car parks and services which generate profit.
And then at some point they decide that they want to raise some more capital they need more money to
scale their idea to scale their business.
And so in this case what they would do is they would put their products and services into an enclosed
environment so to say and they would say Okay so from now on we're going to introduce a coin call that
say the apple kind or to be entirely correct sort of coin its a token right.
And if unless they create their own protocol then you will be a coin.
But if they are creating a just a CEO in the third level it would be a token.
So the apple token which you can use to buy our products to get our services and so on and you can always
exchange used dollars for Apple tokens and you can still buy our products and services will use those
but will be more expensive so its better off to have Apple tokens and thats going to be like the fuel
of our economy.
How come and how are going to create this little economy of our own where people with Apple tokens are
going to be able to buy our products and services.
And and so on and so on and so basically the public really knows that this company is quite successful.
The idea is great.
And so they see the value in having these Apple tokens.
And so what theyre going to do is now theyre going to invest money into these Apple tokens in NYCO as
soon as these coins or tokens are initially offered public is going to give the company cash or which
usually happens in bitcoin or ether in the current.
I see it as it were seeing.
And in return they will get tokens.
So we'll talk more about this further in the study tutorial.
But for now the important thing to understand is a conceptual difference and the difference is that
in the case of an IPO in the traditional approach the public gets shares and control and entitlement
to a share of the profit of the company whereas in ICAO the public gets none of that.
The public just gets these tokens that they can later on spend on the products of the company and services
or they can instead late late or wait for these tokens to appreciate and value and sell them off more
at a higher price.
What is important here is that the founders of the company they keep all the control of the company
and they keep all the shares of the profit.
So that's an important part to remember here.
And other comments here are that IPOs they go through a very stringent legal process.
It's very hard to do and you know lots of lawyers have been well it's very costly it's very rigorously
audited and controlled by the government whereas I suppose currently are not or not yet.
And so that's an important thing to keep in mind as well that while an IPO is limited to only two companies
that are ready to take the next step and start scaling and are ready to be publicly listed and I see
what can be done by anybody literally anybody will see examples of that for the dollar as well on this
course.
So that's something else to keep in mind.
So that and I say it is just another way for a company to raise money.
You know in order to fund its operations better.
And if you'd like to learn a bit more about CEOs then there's a great article on tech crunch called
WITF is an ICAO by Alex with them.
So check it out.
And there you might find some additional information on Lysias.
And on that note we're going to wrap up today's Tauriel.
I look forward to seeing you in the next one.
Are we're going to continue this journey into the world of initial point offerings.
Until then Jeb Bush is.